I am Lukashenko Marianna Anatolievna,
I am the prorector of the Moscow Financial and Industrial Academy for Continuous Education,
Doctor of Economics, Professor.
In addition, I am an expert consultant of the company Organization of Time,
leading business training in such companies as Ingustrach, SubMiller and many others.
And now I would like to get acquainted with you.
Please tell me, you are certainly successful managers or specialists,
who have enough time to decide on everything.
You have time not only to work, but also to live.
You leave work on time, you read a lot of interesting books,
you go to theaters, admire the nature, communicate with your family, with our younger brothers.
Yes, that's right?
You know, then you probably can not watch anything else.
But I believe that in 95 cases out of 100, this is not quite so.
And the topic of our conversation is time management, the organization of our time.
So, pay attention to the slide.
We will talk about the most important things in the field of organization of our time.
About timing, how to measure what our time consists of, what we spend it on, what distracts us,
what prevents us from being more effective.
We will talk to you about planning tasks.
This is a very powerful story related to the organization of our time.
And finally, we will talk to you about how to rest properly during the working day,
so as not to overload and not to get tired completely.
We will talk to you about how to motivate yourself to perform complex, unpleasant, long, voluminous tasks.
So, we will talk to you about the most key stories in the field of organization of time.
Of course, this is not all we need to know.
But we will also consider the literature from which we can draw significantly more materials and information in the field of organization of time.
So, have a good trip!
Let's define the concept of time management with you.
Please look at the slide definition of time management.
This is a technology that allows us to use the inexhaustible time of our life in accordance with our personal goals, values and priorities.
Why didn't I pay attention to business goals?
Because business goals are, of course, subordinate to many of our personal goals.
Work is a very important component of our life, and no one disputes that.
Another thing is that we need to work to maximize our performance, to make us interested, to make us happy,
so that we leave work full of energy and strength in order to still have time for everything else,
which is of interest and importance to us, in addition to work.
So, time management is associated with something Western, which came to us with Perestroika, but this is definitely not so.
In the former Soviet Union there was a luxurious school of organization of time.
And there are key figures of world fame in the field of organization of time.
First of all, they are Alexei Kapitonovich Gastev and Platon Mikhailovich Kerzhentsev.
The development of the domestic school of organization of time dates back to the 1920s.
So, the 1920s. The Central Institute of Labor in the former Soviet Union.
Its director, Alexei Gastev, a man who was in correspondence with Ford and Taylor,
a man who introduced the methodology of a narrow base into scientific circulation for the first time.
What does it mean?
It means that the efficiency of a company, the efficiency of production in general, depends on the efficiency of each of us at our workplace.
Imagine, the 1920s, a time when one plus one is zero, there are no irreplaceable.
The idea is widely destroyed by the modernists.
However, as we know, this is a key message, a key paradigm of modern management.
Combine the interests of business and the interests of everyone, and a person will pull the whole company forward to achieve his goals.
The year 1926. Another meeting of the Soviets is taking place.
Several thousand people are sitting in a huge hall.
An American journalist is sitting next to Platon Mikhailovich Kerzhentsev.
The meeting is scheduled for 11, but it does not start at 12 or 1.
And the journalist turns to Kerzhentsev and asks,
How many people are there in the hall?
Three and a half thousand. Who are they?
Among them are workers of different specialties, engineering and technical workers, various specialists.
Kerzhentsev sees how the American journalist starts to read something in a notebook.
Then he says, but let me, during this time it was possible to build one or two airplanes.
And Kerzhentsev writes in an article, Time to Build Airplanes.
It is time to stop measuring time in some abstract quantities and being late in abstract quantities.
And it is necessary to measure in the same product that could be produced during this time.
The article receives a colossal public response in the country called Liga Vremya.
Its department is created at almost every enterprise, in every company, in every organization.
People, without the participation of the state, begin to develop some time-saving technologies.
It becomes so fashionable, it is so fascinating that even Ilf and Petrov cannot pass by it in the famous Golden Velvet.
When Antelope Gnus makes a car run on the off-road and wilderness,
in one village she is met by a group of comrades with a banner.
Hello Liga Vremya and its leader, comrade Kerzhentsev.
So Ilf and Petrov note that this idea becomes a key idea of the modern world.
Sorry, when it is appropriate and when it is not.
But the new economic policy, which coincided with the development of Liga Vremya,
unfortunately, ceases and together with it the work of Liga Vremya ends.
And the next stage of the formation of the National School of Organization of Time is only in the 70s,
when the book by Daniil Granin is published, it is called,
A Strange Life, by biologist Lyubishev.
This is a man who set the goal of his life to create a table of biological elements, like the table of Mendeleev.
And when he began to calculate how much time he would need for this, it turned out to be 150 years of human life.
Realizing the senselessness of what is happening, he begins to study the National School of Organization of Time very carefully.
He begins to chronometer the costs of his own time.
He begins to look at how much time it takes to solve a particular task, a particular job, a particular activity.
And a paradox arises. He manages to do it 100 times more.
But in the meantime, he begins to live a full life. He reads a lot. He devotes time to his family, nature, his development.
It would seem that he lives a full life, and in the meantime, he manages to do 100 times more than before.
And this book falls into the hands of a young student of the Mathematical Faculty of the St. Petersburg State University, Gleb Arkhangelsky.
And he realizes that it completely coincides with his world perception.
He begins to study the problem of time organization. He begins to look at what was developed in the former Soviet Union.
He begins to study everything that was developed in the West on this topic and what works in the chaotic modern Russian business environment.
Being a professional mathematician, he creates time management models and, based on these models, designs techniques and technologies of modern time management.
In 2000, under his leadership, the first time management community was created in Russia.
Its address is presented in your workbooks. This is the www.improvement.ru. There are the latest, most modern, most relevant materials and developments of the members of the time management community.
These are people who are interested in the problem of time organization. These are HR, managers who are fed up with the lack of time and come up with the most suitable techniques and technologies for them.
We will consider the technologies of time organization, which were developed in the company of the time organization under the leadership of Gleb Arkhangelsky.
Now, please open your workbooks on the second page and let's try to answer the question, please tell me how much time do we have? What is the time resource that we have in the hours?
Of course, we don't guess anything, we don't tempt fate, of course, the one who has been given the time will have the same amount of time.
But still, what are the average numbers? I see someone is pulling the calculator, and someone is guessing at a discount, maybe it's 10,000 hours, maybe it's a million hours, maybe several million. Let's try to figure it out.
So, the table in our workbook. So, what is our capital of time? Fill in the table. My age, please indicate your age in the table. The second line is the assessment of the time of completion. What is it? How old would you like to live?
Please write realistic numbers to get a very realistic resource. You can write average numbers, you can write a little higher, but in any case, it is desirable that these are quite realistic data.
The next line is my capital of time in years. What you got in the second line, we subtract what we got in the first line. The next line is my capital of time in days. What we got in the third line, we multiply by 365 days.
And now let's look at the most important time consumption in our future life. The number of hours needed for a day's sleep. So, depending on how much time you spend on sleep per day, please indicate this figure in the table.
This will be an average number. Perhaps it will be 6 hours, perhaps 8 hours. The next line is the number of active hours per day. 24 hours minus what you got in the fifth line.
And finally, the last line is my capital of time in hours. What you got in the fourth line, we multiply by what you got in the sixth line. And now compare this with the number you called at the very beginning, when we just tried to find out for a discount, without calculations, our time resource.
So, 200-400 thousand hours on average. What is it?
As we can see, there are no capitalists among us. We all own a very, very small capital of time. And we are all equal to time. This is the first and very important conclusion from what we have just done.
The second, no less important conclusion. We do not feel our time. If I asked you now, how much money do you have? Well, maybe you wouldn't say it out loud. But you've determined enough about yourself.
However, when we say how much time we have, there is no answer.
However, let's compare these two concepts. If we lost 1000 rubles, 10,000, 20,000 rubles, it's disgusting. Agree, it's extremely unpleasant, but it's doable. We'll make some more money.
When we lost 10-20 hours of time, we will never, by any means, remember these hours.
Again, if they try to steal 100 rubles from us, we react nervously to it. And when every day we are inhumanly robbed of our time by hours, we react very, very philosophically. Well, what to do? Well, how to deal with it? And you can't do anything about it.
So, let's look at another picture in our workbook, which is presented here below. This is a time pie. And let's try to make this time pie in accordance with our time resource, which we still have ahead.
So, on the circle, put a dot anywhere. Starting from this point, please calculate the number of sectors equal to your age. The fact is that in this circle, 70 sectors is the average life span of a person.
So, calculate the number of sectors equal to your age and make a dot. This is the time you have already lived.
Now let's look at what we still have ahead. So, if we spend about 8 hours a day on sleep, then boldly select a third of the remaining time. Isn't it 24 hours a day and 8 is a third of our daily time?
So, we spend a third of our future life on sleep. And now let's see how much time we will spend on some aimless expectations, during which you can't read or listen to music.
You can only wait for something sad and gloomy. In general, probably three years of our future life will go away safely. Perhaps, God forbid, we will get sick for a while.
So, in general, we will spend some more time on sleep. Please look at how much very, very small piece of pie remains for a couple of cups of tea.
And our task is to stretch this pie, make it as delicious, as nutritious, as useful, as necessary for us. And this is what we will do now.
So, our first story is a chronometer. Any project, as we know, starts with research. So, before we try to change something in the organization of our time, we need to understand what this time is made of and what prevents us from being more effective.
And this is what a chronometer is for. Please look at the slide. It shows a photo of the working day using the Kerzhentsy chronograph. This is the same Platon Mikhailovich Kerzhentsy, the creator of the League of Time.
The basis of the chronograph is a graph of the Gantt, which shows our tasks that we do during the day. This is in terms of lines, and in terms of columns, a time grid is presented.
The time grid depends on what we want to take into account. If we want to take into account the costs of our working time, then we start from the beginning of our working day and end, respectively, the time of the end of our working day.
If we want to take into account the costs of our working time, then we start from the beginning of our working day and end, respectively, the time of the end of our working day.
What is it? In column P, we note the tasks that are the priority for us and for the company as a whole. In column D, we note the tasks that we performed ourselves, although we could not delegate them.
Of course, the chronograph is conducted in real time. For example, you held a meeting and recorded that you held it from 11 to 12.50.
You held some phone conversations and noted that these phone conversations lasted from 12.50 to 13.00.
This is how you record all the work that you had during the working day.
First, in the order of the experiment, at least during one working day, you should record all the work that you have done. Ideally, the time should be conducted at least during the week.
But in order to try this technique, right here and now, you could fill in the chronograph in your workbook with your current day or your yesterday.
Let's see what we get. We recorded all the work that we did and we tied them to a certain time during which these works were performed.
In column P, we note the tasks that are the priority for us and for the company. In column D, we note the tasks that we could delegate, but we decided to do them ourselves.
What to do with these tasks? Below, in your workbook, you have a table with an express analysis of the data obtained. First of all, we need to calculate the percentage of time spent on long-term priority tasks.
This percentage of time is designated in scientific literature as 70-80% of our working day.
But in reality, unfortunately, this is not the case. Even if you have spent 50% on priority tasks, even if 40%, it is still a good result.
Next, the second line. The percentage of time for tasks that you could delegate. According to time management rules, this figure should not exceed 10%.
If more than 10% of your tasks are tasks that you decide on your own, even if you could delegate them, then there are problems. Problems with organizing business processes, problems with organizing your personal management, and so on.
These are the indicators that need to be corrected.
And finally, the percentage of time not taken into account. What is it about? What do you think can prevent us from doing time management?
I'm sure many of you say, we have no time to do time management, we are already insanely busy. I understand you very well. Several years ago, I said the same thing.
We try to do time management, even if we try from the bottom of our hearts. But unfortunately, we are busy and we really forget about it.
What to do? Of course, immediately throw the time and resume it, as we often do with the charge from the next Monday or from the next month, or better from the next year.
So, since the temptation is great, really immediately stop doing time management, then we provide a separate line, forgot and God with him. As I remembered, I will fix the moment that I remembered and continue to do time management.
And do not tempt yourself, do not stop time management. Let's pay attention to the steps of time management. Please see, they are presented to you on the slide.
So, the first. For several days, we record all the work done for 10-15 minutes. Perhaps you will say, but I need to record all the work from 5 minutes. Please record, but do not get too involved.
The fact is that time management also requires time. If we record our tasks from 15 minutes, in fact, it takes a little time. Just a day, 15-20 minutes maximum.
However, if we start to scrupulously record 3-5-minute tasks, it takes 45 minutes. This is the first. The second. Will not we get caught in an avalanche of information?
After all, imagine a list of 3-minute tasks can be very, very voluminous. With him, you need to do something, we should not do time management for the sake of time management itself. As a result, we must take some steps to optimize our time, make ourselves more effective.
So, what does it all lead to? The second. We outline 2-3 key indicators. What are these indicators? This is what we would like to change.
For example, we may not be satisfied with the fact that every day we are delayed at work for 2 hours. Or maybe we are determinedly not satisfied that we spend half an hour a day with our little son. Or maybe we are not satisfied that we do not devote time to fitness, or sports, or walking, or reading, whatever.
So, we start working with indicators that are needed from our point of view in the adjustment. For this we need to first find out their actual values.
And finally, we track these indicators in the dynamics. And what is most curious and most entertaining, perhaps, these indicators themselves decisively without our participation change for the better.
So, as soon as we start tracking some indicators in the dynamics, they themselves begin to improve, that is, change in the right direction.
So, what are the examples of indicators? The next slide. If my goal is to leave work on time, then the indicator is the duration of the delay after work.
If my goal is to devote more time to priority projects, then the indicator is the amount of time a day devoted to a priority project, as well as the percentage of such time from the total working time.
If my goal is to lessen the strain on work, in the normal sense of the word, that is, to do more work, but with less energy consumption, then the indicator is the amount of time a day spent in a resourceful, highly energetic working state.
So, what are the rules of timing? Pay attention to the next slide.
During the day, we only take a picture of the working day. We do not try to analyze the costs of our time during the working day.
Any analysis we take to the evening part and start in a calm environment, when we have already finished working, we start to look at what our working day consisted of.
This is the first key principle of timing.
The second key principle is to make this process pleasant and tasty for yourself.
If you like paper media, buy a bright, beautiful, leather notebook that you like, a nice color, a nice notebook that you would like to play with, a notebook that would be in front of you, a notebook that would attract your attention, a notebook that would be of interest to others.
If you like some beautiful blanks in Excel, make yourself a luxurious schedule in which everything will be automatically summed up, make it pleasant, interesting.
Of course, you can use reminders to not forget about the timing. You can put a sound reminder on your mobile phone so that you do not forget the timing.
Rule number three. Your task is not to get an objective picture. What is it?
If you spend time in vain or not quite effectively, you start to make sharp movements in this direction.
You know, people change the circle of communication. People refuse to be friends, not friends, but friends who like to talk about nothing for a long time.
In fact, this is not entirely harmless and it is not worth making revolutions in your life, which we pay attention to in the next item.
In the same way, you do not need to get up at 6 o'clock and leave the room proudly at work.
Of course, you don't need to. Our work includes force majeure, tasks that need to be done urgently, you need to be late.
You don't need to tell yourself, I have to leave on time today, I have a schedule.
And for this, we will encourage ourselves for the timing, for its conduct, as it is indicated in the next item.
I have a schedule for a day. In the evening I will eat some delicious chocolate. I have been doing this for a week and it is wonderful.
It is very important that we have a very important thought on how we will spend the time that we have free as a result of timing.
From here flows a certain desire, a term that came from the theory of the regime of inventive tasks, STRISA.
The fact is that they never call things their own names in order to get away from the stereotype of thinking.
For example, if you need to invent a new shovel, then you are told that you need a thing that will perform the following functions.
So we need a certain desire in our time management, which is not enough time now, which is pleasant.
I want to read something, I want to see something, go somewhere, talk to someone, drink beer with friends, chat.
I want to chat so aimlessly. I want to and I reward myself for doing the timing so carefully for a whole week and tracking all the time spent on what was right, reasonable and perhaps not quite rational.
So the next slide is to write out the desire, but now there is not enough time and on which we will begin to allocate time that is released with us with the help of timing.
And in this regard, the question arises, how to be with timing now?
Well, we optimized some indicators, we began to leave work on time in most of our time and we began to devote more time to our family, our children, reading.
And what now? When do I stop with timing? Or do I have to do it all my life?
And everything is very simple, as you are comfortable, so you do.
There are people who have been doing timing all their lives and for them it is quite natural, how to take a shower, how to brush your teeth.
For others, everything is completely wrong and then we recommend holding a certain disciplinary week.
That is, for a week you are doing the timing, you have found the very costs of time that interfere with your efficiency, you have undertaken certain actions to minimize or eliminate these costs of time at all.
And that's it, you stopped. Somewhere in 2-3 months, when you feel that you again have a need to optimize your working time, you again do the timing and so on.
And let's summarize and determine the advantages of timing.
So, the important result of timing is that the indicators we need are optimized themselves.
An important result of timing is that we get an objective picture of time, including the long-term perspective.
We also acquire new important information about ourselves and our personal growth reserves.
In fact, there are very curious examples when we are told by large and serious managers, everything is fine with us, with the organization of time, we have enough time for everything.
But after spending literally a week of timing, they write to us and say that we have found unprecedented reserves of time.
If someone told me that I have 1.5-2 hours of free time during the day, I would never believe it.
Thus, we really get a lot of new information about ourselves.
In addition, it is an opportunity to track improvements in quantity and manage your time based on facts, not opinions.
And finally, the most important thing is to develop the feeling of time and the feeling of efficiency.
The result of timing is that in a few days we have a slightly tingling feeling of efficiency or inefficiency of the process.
For example, we talk on the phone and suddenly feel that this conversation is losing efficiency and becomes just a chat.
We feel like some negotiations are losing their efficiency.
This is the most important result of timing.
We also begin to feel how much time a particular task takes, and in management this is very important.
We naturally acquire new information about how much time our subordinates and colleagues will need to complete a particular task.
We return to our very important question, what can prevent us from keeping the timing?
Indeed, someone will say to me, and this is the most common answer,
but many people are, frankly, too lazy or just forget, just do not want to deal with it.
In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the following slide.
In it, in fact, is presented a woodcutter who is desperately trying to split this churbak.
The fact is that there is a wonderful story about this.
Once the villagers were amazed that the next day in the forest the woodcutter's axe was handed out, and it sounded strictly in one place and nothing else was happening.
They went to find out what was going on and saw a completely exhausted woodcutter who was trying to cut the same unfortunate tree with a completely blunt axe.
After observing this process for some time, they said, what are you doing? Go sharpen the axe.
What do you think the woodcutter said? Of course, I have no time, I have to cut.
Therefore, very often we spare time for the most important, for the most investment, for what works for our efficiency, for our future, for our development, for our health.
We spend, we spare time for the optimization of certain processes and in this regard we are suppressing this woodcutter.
Why did we do all this? Why did we conduct a chronometrage?
I believe that I managed to convince you that this is really an important time-manager technique and it is worth trying.
But you need to understand why we are doing all this.
We do all this to identify time swallowers.
The definition of time swallower is on your next slide.
So, time swallower is any business, time spending that we want to reduce.
Let's pay attention to the fact that there is no unified list of time swallowers.
For example, if we were running around the city all day, if we were talking all day, then most of all in the world we want to fall on some chair and maybe at this moment a computer swallower will be the most necessary rest in which we need so much.
But at another time when we worked on the computer all day and we have a neck, back, head, eyes under load, and we decided to rest and we switched to another resource.
We went to a computer swallower.
Does our neck continue to be under load? Yes, of course.
And the back, and the eyes, and the head.
Well, it's a little easier in the head, but not so much.
In this case, it is really a time swallower because it only prevents us from working, resting, and coming to our resource state.
Let's see what can be a time swallower.
It can be an expectation.
Expectations while we are going somewhere, spending time on the road, when we are standing in traffic, when we are waiting for our flight to the airport.
A time swallower can be a phone conversation with a friend or a girlfriend, nothing.
It's not necessarily our friend, maybe it's a client, a VIP client.
We can't finish the conversation with him, but he says and says and says, and there is no end to it.
What to do with it is completely incomprehensible.
These are some processes that are simply not effectively organized.
And this is what we will work with you now.
So, please look at the slide.
You have a task there.
This is a task for a task that is presented in the workbook.
So let's look at our workbook.
So please open the workbook on page 5.
And look at the data of a certain manager.
What needs to be done?
First, analyze the photo of the day that the manager made.
Second, identify the time swallower.
Third, offer some improvements to the organization of his work.
And finally, count the time we have gained from these improvements.
And now, please, pause and complete this task.
So, the task is completed.
Let's see what we got.
Let's pay attention to the fact that our manager spends a lot of time on email.
Do you see how many times he looked at the email?
Seven times.
At the same time, once at night, once early in the morning, and five more times during the working day.
How effective are these time-saving data?
If your job is to constantly monitor email, of course.
Of course, this time-saving is effective.
But very often it is not quite so.
We recommend that you reduce your work with email to two times a day.
And you should press this work with email by the end of some working period.
For example, the first time you should work with email in an hour and a half before lunch.
And the second time you should look at email in the second half of the day, around 5 or 4 o'clock.
But, of course, this does not mean that you did not look at email in the morning.
You can look at it, look at some urgent tasks that you have to do at the very beginning of the working day.
And you can do it. What is it for?
In order to correct your current workday plan.
But do not enter the correspondence.
Postpone all this until you do the main, most important, key tasks for a fresh start.
And after that, proceed to the temporary correspondence.
So, the first is to work with email and its optimization.
The second is that our manager spends a lot of time on the preparation for the presentation.
And we highlight two components of it.
The first is that our manager prepares himself.
And the second is that some people constantly come to him.
And he deals with them and instructs them to the presentation.
What could we recommend to our manager?
Of course, to gather a meeting.
Of course, to gather all the people who will be involved in this presentation.
And, of course, to give the necessary instructions, discuss some issues.
After that, if necessary, organize the final instruction of the team.
But in no case do not deal with each separately.
The same with your preparation.
You do not need to break it.
You have allocated some time, sat down, prepared for the presentation.
And completed, switched to other types of activities.
What else is important?
There are tasks that could be delegated.
For example, call Irina on the preparation of the presentation.
To clarify the time of the presentation.
Of course, you should not spend 34 minutes to call someone yourself.
Even if we do not have the opportunity to delegate this task,
but we called, we did not reach and without spending this time,
we make the next call at least in 20-30 minutes, and so on.
And finally, please pay attention to the road to work.
It takes an hour and 40 minutes to get to work.
And it takes 49 minutes to get home.
Perhaps the fact is that in the morning he gets into a traffic jam.
And maybe it makes sense to recommend him to leave a little earlier.
And this time was spent on lunch, which he did not have.
Please note that our manager is completely busy.
He spends 18 minutes for breakfast, about the same for dinner.
He does not have lunch at all, sleeps 5 hours.
Note that our manager will not last so long.
So, techniques for fighting swallowing.
Attention to the slide.
Reducing the fine details of work.
We combine work in blocks.
We combine time for instructing our employees, our subordinates, for communicating with them.
We combine time for working with email.
We combine time for phone calls.
The next position is to normalize the time for the flow.
The fact is that during the day we have to perform a lot of tasks.
We allocate time for them.
We allocate time to prepare some reports, some reports.
As in our case, to prepare for the presentation.
We do not waste this time.
If we are distracted 4 times during 2 hours,
then our total time of work on this task will be not 3 hours,
but 2 hours plus 4 times for 15 minutes.
And much more.
But imagine a locomotive from point A to point B goes without stopping.
How much time will it take?
And when it stops at each half-stop, how much time in the end?
So is our priceless brain, our priceless head.
It is not necessary to distract it.
Let it concentrate on performing some task.
We normalize the time.
Next, we manage the workload.
We allocate time for lunch.
And we never save time for lunch.
We allocate time for rest.
We allocate time to have a full breakfast, dinner.
We allocate full time for sleep.
Otherwise, in a month or two, we will have a situation
in which we will not be able to work.
And finally, the use of time gaps.
What is it about?
We often have to wait for something, spend time on the road.
We try to make sure that this time does not go to waste.
We keep some book with us.
If the time we spend on the road allows,
let's say we drive a car and drive not by ourselves,
we can work on a computer, on a laptop.
If we are not allowed, we can just listen to music.
We can listen to audio books.
By the way, it is very fashionable now.
Everyone collects audio books, exchanges audio books, discusses them.
In addition, now very fashionable microphones.
We record our ideas when we do not have the opportunity
to record something on a paper carrier.
Something came to our mind, we write it on a recorder.
And after that, we transfer all this to paper or electronic view.
In fact, it is a very useful thing.
So, we are summing up the block of time and time absorbers.
Next slide.
We want to manage, we measure.
We get an objective picture and no revolutions,
in no case do not radically change your life.
And the third, when we track the indicators in the dynamics,
they improve themselves.
So, we have finished a very important block of time.
And now we are starting to an even more important plot.
Planning our time.
Our next plot is planning.
But very often we associate planning with something tough.
Nine hours of meetings, 10 hours of negotiations,
11 hours of some kind of meeting.
We will approach the problem of planning our time a little differently.
From the point of view of how to perform the task in the optimal time for it.
And first of all, we will talk about the role of His Majesty the Case.
Tell me, please, were there any situations in your life,
completely random,
thanks to which some changes occurred in your work,
in your personal life, in your development?
Something happened, for sure.
Of course.
The role of the case in the life of each of us is colossal.
And when we conduct trainings in companies,
listeners sometimes tell absolutely amazing situations.
For example, a person has always dreamed of being a pediatrician.
And now, the last holidays before the choice of specialization.
A person is already studying at a medical institute.
And now he returns to the institute after the holidays, and, oh, horror, he is late for the train.
He changes the ticket, finds himself in another train, and finds himself in a compartment with a famous forensic medical expert.
They talked all the way.
A person comes to Moscow and writes a statement for a forensic medical examination.
He is told, how is it possible? You are cutting off your way to medical practice.
You can no longer be a doctor.
And the person says, no, no, this is exactly the case of my life.
And it really turns out to be the case of his life.
We see a successful, well-off person, a bright personality.
It turns out that this is an amazing community of these people, as it really happens.
The role of the case is really impossible to overestimate in our life.
It is great, it is colossal.
Meanwhile, please look at the slide.
We are all trying to plan everything hard.
And if we, pay attention to the next slide,
turn to the ancient Greeks,
we will see two concepts of time.
Not only the concept of chronos, which we are used to.
This is linear, measurable, astronomical time.
That's it.
At 5 p.m. presentation, at 6 p.m. some solemn part,
at 7 p.m. leaving work, and so on.
It was very hard.
But they had a different concept of time.
The concept of chiros.
This is not a linear time or favorable moment to perform a particular task.
What chiros are seen in our everyday life, everyday work?
It turns out that there are quite classic chiros,
or classic contexts that we miss in our work.
What is it?
These are contexts tied to some places.
For example, when I'm in a bank, don't forget the first, second, third.
When I'm on a business trip, don't forget the first, second, third.
What can I say?
Each of us goes to a store,
and very often we meet with such a situation.
A phone call.
You will pass by the store, don't forget to buy bread.
This is the very context planning.
There are contexts tied to people, or groups of people.
When I meet with Ivan Ivanovich, don't forget the first, second, third.
When I'm at a meeting, don't forget to say about the first, second, third.
Finally, there are contexts like circumstances.
For example, these are internal circumstances.
This is my resource state.
This is my resource state when I feel exhausted.
At this moment I can just sit and say to myself,
how tired I am.
And I can plan some things that work to restore my balance and my own rest.
And finally, these are external circumstances.
When finally some law will come out, some situation.
When such and such order will come, such and such instruction, and so on.
So let's summarize the typical Kairos.
Attention to the next slide.
Kairos is a place in a bank, in a car service, in a branch, on a business trip, somewhere else.
Kairos is a person or a group of people.
When a client calls, don't forget to talk to him about this, that, and that.
You may say, wait a minute, you can call him yourself.
Aha, maybe this is a question of a very serious policy.
Not to show interest to yourself, but to wait for the right moment,
when a person will contact you, and here, by the way, to tell him what we need.
Internal circumstances.
During the inspiration surge, for example, Alexander Pushkin had a Kairos,
which was called the Echidna mood.
As you know, he was often described with all sorts of nasty things.
He had a crystal vase, in which he cut out, put notes, and threw them into this crystal vase.
And when he had a Kairos, the Echidna mood, he took out some Easter egg
and wrote a nasty, flimsy epigram on it.
It was beautiful.
And finally, external circumstances.
A famous Kairos.
When the boss is in a good mood.
Don't forget to solve these questions.
When, finally, some law comes, some position.
What is context planning and how to plan luck?
How to plan Kairos?
So, if the context or Kairos is a set of conditions favorable for performing any task.
All this is presented to you on the next slide.
Then context planning is a planning technique, which consists of
1. Identification of typical personal Kairos.
What Kairos do you have?
2. Establishing the appropriate lists of tasks associated with these Kairos.
3. Viewing these lists when approaching certain Kairos.
Let's see how context planning is carried out.
Attention to the next slide.
It presents context planning in a diary.
So, the first technique is separate sections on typical contexts.
You take your diary.
You select separate sections of this diary.
Client A, Client B, Client C, Project A, Project B, Project C.
And you write all the questions that relate to this client or this project.
Next.
The second technique is stickers for flexible tasks.
What is it?
You agreed to call someone at the end of the month.
In general, I must say that this is an extremely unsuccessful formulation.
Because the end of the month is a very conditional concept.
For one, the end of the month is 30th and 31st.
Another means that the 25th is already the end of the month.
Then it is always not very successful.
When we call, there is always a problem.
And I thought you would call.
And so on.
So, what can we do in this case?
We can write down on the 25th to call Ivan Ivanovich.
We can write it down.
The 25th has come. We call Ivan Ivanovich.
We find out that he is on a business trip.
We find out that he will come in three days.
What should we do?
First.
We try to remember that we need to call Ivan Ivanovich in three days.
Extremely unsuccessful.
It is exactly after the 30th that we will definitely forget about it.
The second option.
We rewrite this record to the 28th.
Better.
Although we spent a certain amount of time on this.
On the 28th, we call Ivan Ivanovich.
And we are told that he will not be there today.
He drove in there in the morning for five minutes and left today with the ends.
What should we do?
Rewrite to tomorrow?
And how long should we rewrite from one page to another?
Stickers in this regard.
A much more convenient tool.
We paste them on the corresponding page of the diary.
If this task has passed to another day.
It takes us a split second to paste this sticker.
In addition, the sticker has the ability to signal to us that we need to solve a particular task.
And finally, the third technique.
It is called a tab with contextual tasks.
In the former Soviet Union, maybe some of you have met such a tool called a perfocard.
It was very popular in computing centers, programmers, and developers.
This is a dense cardboard of a small format.
On it, as a rule, in addition to its main application, it was very convenient to write down, mark and store something.
So, this is a sheet of dense cardboard, thin, on which you write down a list of your tasks.
And this sheet is posted on one page of your diary to another.
For example, during lunch, you can meet with Ivanov and Petrov and talk to them about this and that.
You can write such a task on a perfocard and take it with you when you go to lunch.
So, naturally, you don't have to carry a diary with you, don't have to look at what tasks you have tied to lunchtime, and so on.
This is what concerns the tab with contextual tasks.
But these are personal contextual planning techniques.
Yes, you can, of course, use the context planning technique on Outlook.
In order to actually use this technique, you should only pull up the right edge of the screen in the calendar, and you will see another field.
It's called the task field.
And you can create the necessary categories on this task field that correspond to your context.
The category is people, the category is clients, the category is business, the category is business trip, and so on.
There is a need to implement this context planning for your team, for your department, department, company as a whole.
Context planning boards are very convenient for this.
Please look at the next slide.
These boards show completely real ways of context planning that work in various organizations.
The left slide shows what works in one large company in St. Petersburg.
The right one shows the Moscow educational organization.
So, please look at the left example of the context planning board.
The board shows the performers who perform tasks within specific projects, and the lines show the projects.
At the intersection, there are stickers with the tasks that are solved by the performers within the projects.
Please note that we have a full overview of the tasks that are solved within the projects.
Secondly, it is very convenient for us to adjust.
For example, Ivanov is preparing a presentation, and Petrov is preparing to participate in the exhibition.
Seeing all this, Petrov can easily arrange Ivanov's presentation as his resource for participating in the exhibition.
Please look at the example on the right.
So, the Moscow educational organization spends a lot of time communicating with various educational bodies.
The courier service has long been exhausted by the need to transport documents back and forth.
So, what have people come up with?
The context planning board is designed for the ministries, departments, and committees
that need to go to either deliver documents or discuss certain issues.
The announcement is made on March 12th, at the same time, that Ivanov should be in the 32nd office of the ministry.
People who pass by, stick their stickers,
and say, please, come in and take the documents for Petrov, who is in the next office.
Or, please, if you are in the ministry, come to office 32 and take the necessary documents or documents for me.
Thus, we use the opportunities that open up to us as a result of someone else's performance of their own tasks.
In fact, this is not uncommon in companies.
For example, one company is practicing the allocation of a car for the needs of employees,
and the schedule of this car is laid out in the outlook.
You can look at the route of this car, you can get into this route in order to hand over the documents or just go yourself.
If this route is not suitable for you, you can simply book a free time for your needs.
Or another company has a problem with transferring documents to the accounting office,
it takes a long time to move there, and so on.
They have a schedule, and people put their documents in a certain place that must be transferred to the accounting office.
A person for whom this task is extremely relevant and he needs to solve it as soon as possible,
takes the entire package of documents and brings it to the accounting office.
Thus, the opportunities and resources of someone else are used.
And now we will take our first step towards creating our personal context planning system.
To do this, please open the workbooks on page 7, and our task is now to define our old and new contexts.
So, the task is to identify our typical personal contexts,
we need to formulate tasks related to these contexts,
and finally, we need to determine ways of organizing context planning.
Let's look at the example presented.
Very often in our practice, I hope it's not only in my practice, but also in our practice,
there is a situation when we meet someone and say,
I wanted to discuss something with you, but now I forgot.
Okay, I'll call you back.
It happens, doesn't it?
It happened to me, especially when I met my boss.
He is an extremely busy person,
and when he called me to clarify some of his questions,
I solved these questions, and after that I would like to take this moment
and solve the questions that arose with me to my boss.
But unfortunately, at this very moment, all these questions were popping out of my head.
What did I come up with for this topic?
I created a folder on which I wrote,
Chef, any questions that arose with me to my boss,
I always recorded on paper, and this sheet of paper was safely put in this folder and forgot about it.
If I had any non-urgent documents requiring his signature,
I grouped these documents, wrote a kind of accompanying document,
and also put them in the folder.
So let's see what we got as a result.
The first line, the context, when will I be able to talk to the director.
The associated tasks.
I need to get a signature on the documents,
I need to agree on the information in the catalog,
and finally, I need to approve the conference program.
How is the context planning organized?
A checklist of questions in the folder.
Pay attention to what is indicated in the brackets with the solution options.
We practice not open questions to the management,
but we practice questions with ready-made solution options.
If you are the manager, then adjust your subordinates.
It works the same way, save your time and grow yourself.
And finally, a list of documents for signature and approval.
Now, at the moment when my manager has a question for me,
I, like Zhvonetsky, have a folder with all the questions,
and I rush to my manager.
Having found out all the questions that he has,
I ask him a question, and now you have a little time left.
Having received an affirmative answer, I open my priceless folder
and find out all the questions I have.
And now, please fill in the table that you have at the bottom.
So, the first line is what you have already taken into account
when planning your business.
Perhaps you already had a context, your client, your customer,
your special object,
and you grouped all the questions in relation to this object,
made a list of these questions,
and when meeting this object, you went straight to the list
and found out all the questions you had.
If this was the case, please write down how you took this into account
when planning, what the tasks were,
and how the context planning was organized.
Perhaps with the help of separate sections in the diary,
perhaps with the help of a separate folder on the computer,
perhaps with the help of some other section in Outlook,
perhaps with the help of stickers, and so on.
And then, please fill in the bottom line of the table.
This is the context that you did not take into account when planning,
but which you have already decided to take into account.
So, please write down this context,
write down the tasks and how you will organize the context planning.
Please pause now, fill in this table,
and be sure to come back to us. Thank you.
So, you filled in the table,
and now we are starting to learn a new technique,
the long-term planning technique.
Please look at the next slide.
How do we plan for a long period of time?
We make a plan for a month, a plan for a quarter,
a plan for six months, a plan for a year.
All of this is very strict.
We offer another technique,
the long-term planning technique,
which is based not on the rules of a strict list of tasks
but on a strict rule of moving tasks from one accumulator to another.
So, look, please.
We have three accumulators with you.
The accumulator for the day, where you have a unit,
the accumulator for the week, where you have a seven,
and the accumulator for the year, where you have 365.
So, once a week,
you look through the list of your annual tasks,
what you planned for the year.
And what you have matured to do next week,
you move to the list of tasks for the week.
Look at the convenience of this technique.
We do not forget about the tasks that we have planned even for the next six months.
Sometimes it happens that we have a very convenient moment right now
to solve a task that is not in our plan right now.
For example, we want to lobby a project,
and we have planned this task for the next six months.
And suddenly, right now, we have a very good moment.
We are holding a conference,
we have VIPs here, everyone is present.
We have the largest business representatives here,
officials are here,
and it is very convenient for us to arrange some kind of express negotiations here on the topic we need.
But we forgot about this task.
It is not in front of our eyes,
it is planned for some long period of time,
and we just do not use a very successful opportunity to solve this task right now.
In this case, we do not forget about anything,
because we monitor our annual tasks once a week.
In addition, we do not need intermediate information carriers.
Our plan for the month, our plan for the quarter, our plan for the half-year,
because all these tasks are concentrated in our annual information carrier.
Next, please look, once a day we monitor the task list for a week.
What we have matured to be performed the next day,
we move to the task list for the day.
Thus, again, we do not forget anything,
and at the same time we adapt quite flexibly to the circumstances that are created around us.
Thus, we manage the circumstances,
and we manage our own planning, planning and organization of our time in these proposed circumstances.
Let's look at the next slide.
This is a planning board that is implemented in a large company.
Please look, here are our plans for the day, plans for the week and plans for the month.
Please note, here is the planning for the month, the third line,
and the pillars of the performers who carry out these tasks.
And at the intersection, tasks that are recorded on stickers.
Unfortunately, this is not reflected on the slide,
but in fact, in this company, above each name,
an envelope is also attached, in which tasks are added,
that is, already used stickers.
And thus, having completed the task that we planned for the day,
we just remove this sticker and move it to the envelope,
and having looked through the list of our tasks for the week,
we take the one that is most relevant and most important for us to perform the next day,
and just in a matter of seconds we glue it to the board in this section of tasks for the day.
The same thing happens with the month.
Please note the very interesting result of the work.
After a month, all these envelopes are emptied,
and a meeting takes place where people sum up the tasks completed in a month.
The most interesting thing is that the person who has completed the most tasks receives a day off.
Of course, these tasks are not fixed by a formal sign,
like, I took a piece of paper and put it on the other end of the table.
They are still comparable in their significance, in some weight, of course.
So, the next technique is called the result-oriented planning.
Pay attention to the following slide.
We are very often used to fixing our tasks in the following formulations.
Call Ivanov. Petrov. Project. Meeting at 16.00.
However, we can hardly understand the purpose of this event and what result we should get from these formulations.
So, we suggest the result-oriented planning of your tasks.
Instead of calling Ivanov, you should finish Ivanov's order.
Instead of Petrov. Project, you should get Petrov's information.
Instead of meeting at 16.00, you can use another formulation.
Not to make a joint, but to encourage, reward, praise, and so on.
Please pay attention to the following item.
This is prioritization.
Why is this the Schwab method?
We are talking about the head of the company named Charles Schwab,
who asked the consultant for help in optimizing his working day.
He does not have time to perform the most important tasks for him.
The consultant gave a very banal recommendation.
Make a list of your priority tasks.
First, make a list of the most important tasks.
And then make a list of the least important tasks.
And, please, perform these tasks in this sequence.
Then, the tasks that you simply do not have enough time for,
will remain unimportant.
The most interesting is the result.
A couple of weeks later, the consultant received a check for $ 25,000
with a remark that it was the most valuable management advice he had ever heard and received.
Indeed, we remember the old metaphor.
The metaphor about a vessel half filled with water.
This is a resource of our working time.
And here are stones, pebbles, and sand.
Stones are large, powerful, important tasks.
Pebbles are medium tasks.
And finally, sand is not an important task.
But there are many of them.
And we really want to put as many pebbles as possible in the morning.
Decide to throw yourself off, to drop as many tasks as possible.
And we do that by first filling our vessel with sand.
And the water rises significantly.
Our working time is gone.
After that, we start throwing pebbles there.
The water rose even more.
And when it came to starting to immerse stones there,
the water began to overflow across the edge.
We stayed there at the end of our working time at our workplaces.
And we put stones there.
And now it's 7, 8, 9 o'clock.
And there are no stones at the end of the edge.
And it's already night outside.
So, what are the recommendations in this regard?
As for prioritizing tasks,
put the most important thing first.
You put two stones, and the water rose very much.
You spent a lot of your working time.
After that, pour pebbles there.
The water will rise completely.
And finally, pour sand until the water has reached the edge.
And when the water has reached the edge,
that is, your working time has exhausted itself,
make a decision whether this sand is worth it
to stay for it at your workplace,
when it's already evening and when we're waiting at home.
So, it should be noted
the differentiability of such concepts
as the result of orientation and concretization.
Attention to the next slide.
Please look at this graph.
At the bottom, in the left corner, you have a meeting.
It's a neutral recording.
It's not result-oriented and not concretized.
You start moving horizontally
and intensify the concretization.
You have the following recording.
A meeting on project A, which will take place at 4 p.m.
in a kind of negotiating room with such people.
Yes, the recording has become more concrete,
but it still has no result.
What do you want to get as a result of the meeting?
And so we start moving vertically up.
We begin to increase the result-orientedness of the phrase.
Here you see a rough, let's say,
a formulating of project A.
In fact, you need to give a kick.
In the upper right corner,
you have a high result-orientedness
and a high degree of concretization of the task.
When you determine, first of all,
the result you need to get,
the goal of the meeting,
and finally the meeting, where it is, when and with whom it should take place.
And now let's look at our workbook.
Please open the workbook on page 8.
Here are various formulations,
both result-oriented and not result-oriented.
Our task is to find the formulations
that are not result-oriented
and re-formulate them into a result-oriented type.
Let's go straight in order.
So, hand over the coat to the chemical cleaner.
Undoubtedly, the result-oriented formulation.
Because if we leave such a note on the table,
that is, we ask our family members about it,
in the evening we can easily check it.
Did you hand it over?
Handed over. Everything is fine.
So, the next point is to call Petrov.
Please note,
by logic, this is a result-oriented formulation,
because it contains the necessary verb,
which indicates the result that should be achieved
and allows us to control later,
in fact, whether we called or not.
However, we note that in this case
the very concretization of the formulation is necessary,
because the very purpose of the call may not be the fact itself.
Most likely, we expect something from this call,
and what we expect from it,
we would like to see in the formulation of the task itself.
To achieve the signing of the contract with the OTC,
of course, the result-oriented formulation,
to transfer 15,000 to the account of the supplier,
and also the result-oriented formulation,
to meet with Konstantin.
Of course, in these formulations a lot depends on the context.
If Konstantin is our friend,
and the task itself is to meet with him,
to talk to him,
to drink beer, and so on,
then, of course, we can consider this formulation
quite result-oriented.
If we are talking about a work task,
and some certain business hopes are laid out for this meeting,
then we would like to formulate them
directly in this formulation.
Further.
Meeting 15,000 employees.
Not a result-oriented formulation,
because we need to note
what we expect from this meeting,
and how we can understand
whether this meeting was successful.
Please note that many of our meetings
are not 100% effective, unfortunately.
For this reason.
Because when organizing a meeting,
we do not clearly represent the results
that should be obtained.
Next.
Meeting at 13.00 is a result-oriented task.
Just like making a schedule for tomorrow
and going to the cinema in the evening.
Next.
Calling the client T to find out what the problem is.
Quite a result-oriented formulation.
We can check,
you called, you called, you found out,
found out, and great.
Next.
Object R.
What to do with it?
And here you need to understand,
what to do with it?
Decide what to do with it, right?
To agree on what to do with it,
discuss what to do with it,
so that this formulation is not a result-oriented.
To sleep.
As a rule, in training,
this extremely simple point causes a lot of discussion.
People say,
no, it's not at all,
I need to write exactly how much to lie down,
how much to get up.
In fact, what's the harm in hiding?
This is a result-oriented formulation,
and we can still find out for ourselves,
whether we have achieved the result or not.
Staying with children.
Result-oriented formulation.
Meeting Ivanov.
Contract.
Not a result-oriented formulation,
because we need to understand what we expect from Ivanov in connection with this contract.
We need to discuss it, sign, cancel, correct, and so on.
16.00.
Board of Directors Meeting.
Exactly the same.
Not a result-oriented formulation,
because we still need to understand what we want.
We need to organize this meeting,
we need to prepare the transfer material,
we need to prepare some kind of send-off,
we need to speak at the Board of Directors Meeting, and so on.
Withdraw money from AR-Media.
Quite a result-oriented formulation.
Letaev-Pronin calls.
Not a result-oriented formulation,
because we need to decide
what we want to get from Letaev and Pronin as a result of these calls.
For example, calls to discuss the contract with Letaev
and sign this contract with Pronin.
Remind yourself of the Board of Directors Meeting.
Quite a result-oriented formulation.
Again, we have a dubious wording,
but unfortunately it is very often used in our diaries.
Cancel the event in Vyaz.
So, ignore this event,
do not go to it,
come up with a reason.
Quite a result-oriented formulation.
And finally, the exhibition.
Project B and Project C.
Not a result-oriented formulation,
but a formulation that we should note.
What do we want?
For example, to prepare for the exhibition with Project B and C.
Prepare the standees for Project B
and the distribution materials for Project C.
And so on.
We should note that with a result-oriented formulation
everything is not as transparent as with a concretization.
And we are always very drawn to concretize some tasks
much more than to orient the results of these tasks.
But in fact, in order to get results
on these tasks,
we should focus not so much on the concretization,
but on the result-orientedness of these formulations.
And the specifics depend on each of us.
So, we move on to planning our day.
And first of all,
we need to select the types of our daily tasks
that we need to plan.
Please, pay attention to the next slide.
So, the types of our daily tasks.
The first is the tough tasks that we are used to.
These are tasks that are tied to our exact time.
A meeting at 12 a.m. is a tough task.
A presentation at 4 p.m. is a tough task.
What to do with this tough task?
Of course, as we are used to,
we need to fix this task in our diary
with a binding to the exact time.
A meeting at 12 p.m.
A presentation at 4 p.m.
But we also have flexible tasks.
What are they?
These are tasks that we must do today.
In this regard, they are not different from the tough ones.
They are different in that their execution
is not tied to a specific time.
For example, making several calls,
preparing some references,
writing a report.
In this regard, we should not overload our grid.
We should simply make a list of these tasks,
arranging them by priorities.
That is, we will have flexible tasks
starting with more priority ones
and ending with less priority tasks.
Among our flexible tasks,
there are special flexible tasks.
These are tasks that will take us a lot of time.
For example, making a report.
We know that we will do this
for at least two hours.
It does not matter to us
when we will do this task,
today at 12 p.m. or today at 3 p.m.
It is important to us that we should allocate
at least two hours for this task.
Why do we talk about allocating time?
In order to free this time
from other tasks.
So that at this time we are not distracted
and we are not distracted and not distracted by anything else.
This is a very important point.
We remind you of our locomotive,
which should move without stopping
from point A to point B
in order to overcome this distance
in a minimum time.
This type of tasks is called budgeted.
That is, to perform these tasks
a certain budget of time is required,
a certain time resource.
And these tasks,
because they require a certain resource of time,
it is desirable to place them in the clock grid.
Not, so to speak, fixing their beginning,
not necessarily hard determining
that, let's say, we will start writing this report at 12.
No.
But having allocated the necessary and sufficient
time resource on the clock grid
and freeing their own time
from other affairs at this time.
So, now we will deal with
a very important case for planning the day.
Please pay attention to the following slide.
Here is a task for this case.
So, the first thing you need to do
is to analyze the thoughts of the manager
who starts his typical working day.
These thoughts are presented in your workbook.
After that, you need to make a plan
for this working day
using the rigid-flexible planning algorithm.
So, in your workbook,
on the one hand,
this is the description of the day,
the manager's thoughts.
If you scroll through this workbook,
you will see this page in the workbook,
you will see your daily page there.
Please see, this page is presented
also on your next slide.
This page is divided into two conditional parts.
The left part is those rigid and budgeted tasks
that you have to do during the day.
The right part is those flexible tasks
that are built in a prioritized way
and the execution of which is not tied to exact time.
So, your task now is
to read the whole case very carefully.
The second thing is to highlight in this case
all the tasks that the manager has to solve today.
The third thing is to classify these tasks
into rigid, flexible and budgeted.
After that, you can proceed to making a plan for the day.
To do this, in the left part of your daily page
you first of all mark the manager's rigid tasks.
After that, you present in the right part of the daily page
all his flexible tasks,
having built them in a priority way.
After you have highlighted all the flexible tasks of the manager,
please determine which of these flexible tasks
should be budgeted,
which, by definition, requires a budget of time, its resource.
Having highlighted the budgeted tasks,
please mark in the left part of your daily page
the time interval during which you will be dealing
with the solution of these budgeted tasks.
Before proceeding to the task,
please read the planning technique of the working day,
which is presented in your notebook
over these pages of the daily.
And now, please pause and proceed to solving the case.
We are waiting for you.
So, the task is completed.
Let's see what we have.
Please tell me how many rigid tasks you have found in the case.
The correct answer is two tasks.
What are these tasks?
The first one is to call the boss to the table,
and the second one is a presentation.
Please note that in the process of work,
we have new rigid tasks.
As we set the meeting time,
the meeting time with the supplier,
and some other negotiations,
but initially we have only two rigid tasks.
So, in the left side of the daily,
you have tasks such as
the presentation time and the call time to the table.
As for the flexible tasks,
we set them as priority and put them in the right side of the daily.
As for the budgeted tasks,
we put them in the grid.
Please tell me,
who has read the task, as we agreed,
which is above our daily pages?
I hope that everyone has read it,
because it contains the key information
necessary for the task.
It is written there that
the gaps between the tasks should be left,
the air should be left in the plan,
that is, the free and unoccupied places,
and in fact, the total percentage of the time taken
should be 70, or better 60% of the working time.
You will say, how is it possible?
60% is almost half of the working day.
Should we not use it?
I will answer the following question.
Please tell me,
how long have you been thinking about some strategic things,
your personal development,
your projects, your company?
How long have you been reading the latest news
in the legal sphere,
concerning your activity?
How long have you been reading the latest scientific literature,
concerning your technologies,
your activities, your business in general?
As for economic literature,
you will always have this time, believe me,
but you will never be in a tight spot.
Why do we recommend flexible tasks
to be placed separately, not to include them in the grid?
This is the main question,
because in fact, it is more convenient for many of us
to plan all types of tasks in the grid.
But look what is happening.
We are having a tough time,
because we depend on other people.
Someone got stuck in traffic and was late for 20 minutes.
We allocated an hour for the conversation,
and he was late for 20 minutes.
And we got the following task.
It also went down.
We start to get nervous.
We drive ourselves into a state of stress.
This is never useful for the cause,
especially for us.
If we leave a gap between the cases,
if we leave large time blocks unoccupied,
it means that no matter how tough the tasks are,
we will always have time to solve them.
We will have time to solve them,
as well as to solve some important tasks.
Let's sum up the day's planning.
Pay attention to the following slide.
So, we don't dive into the working day.
We don't rush to complete tasks
that we have already planned.
We clearly allocate 5-10 minutes for planning.
We write down a list of our flexible tasks.
We check again if there are any new tough meetings.
How can we do this?
Our diaries are not made to allocate a separate place
for tough meetings.
We have to make sure that we have a list of tasks
that we can allocate a separate place for.
It's very simple.
We can divide a standard diary in half,
if it's big enough.
Or if the diary is not big enough,
we write down tough meetings in it
and allocate a place for some budgetary tasks.
We can also write down a list of tasks
on a piece of paper or a big diary page.
I prefer the second option.
I prefer to keep a list of flexible tasks
in my diary.
I prefer to write down the tasks that we have already completed.
Some people like to write down the tasks
on a separate piece of paper.
They want to tear the paper
and throw it away.
If you feel comfortable with this,
you can do it this way.
So,
the second point.
We measure the toughness of the planning tool
with the nature of the task.
Is it a flexible or budgetary task?
We try not to tie flexible tasks to the schedule.
Why?
For a flexible response to new circumstances.
And finally, the third important conclusion.
The more air in the plan,
the more reserves,
the higher the probability of implementing the plan,
the higher the simplicity of changing the plan
during the day.
And finally,
our conclusion on the whole block of planning.
The next slide.
Planning is not something tough.
Planning is about how to complete a task
in the best time for it.
Next, we manage our tasks consciously.
Everyone should know
that we always use a convenient moment
to solve our tasks.
And finally,
planning should be oriented to the result.
And for this we use result-oriented formulations.
And now we finish the discussion on the topic of planning
and move on to a very important block,
the block of self-motivation
or self-struggle.
So,
how often do you rest during the working day?
Not at all?
Do you rest for 5 minutes?
During lunch?
I think I hear all these replicas.
Maybe many others.
In fact, there are a lot of possibilities
and a lot of scenarios
of a 5-minute effective rest
during our working day.
And you must rest,
because typical mistakes of work load
are reduced to the following.
First,
rest is spontaneous.
It is not planned and organized consciously.
Second,
rest is not rhythmical.
We do not have clear rules
about the frequency and time of rest.
And finally,
we do not have well-thought-out scenarios of rest.
Why do we have a problem every 45 minutes?
Because children are not able to immerse themselves
in a problem for more than 45 minutes.
Why do we have a problem
in educational institutions?
in a couple of academic hours?
Why?
Because we are not able to do it.
In fact, it is even worse.
Every 20 minutes we need to change our activities.
This is a perfect state.
But in fact,
the essential need
is a 5-minute rest once an hour.
It is not necessary
that we should interrupt
the execution of our budgetary tasks
and stop resting.
No, it is not like that.
We are distracting ourselves.
And this is wrong.
Of course, when we are immersed,
when we are focused on the development
of a business plan,
or we are engaged in some kind of report,
or we are writing an article.
Of course, we should not be distracted.
But in routine,
in a flow,
it is desirable to pull yourself out
of this routine state and switch.
This is also our investment
in our health,
in our resourceful state during the day,
in our adequate perception of problems
and in a normal friendly attitude
to all people around us.
So, what are the principles of effective rest?
Attention to the next slide.
The first is that the rest should be rhythmic,
5 minutes per hour.
The second is that there should be maximum switching.
And the third is the maximum change of the context.
Vladimir Vladimirovich Mayakovsky said this best.
Comrade, remember the rules of the simple.
You work while sitting,
rest while standing.
And we really pay attention
to the fact that the ideal rest
is a rest that switches us
from one activity to another as much as possible.
If we were sitting at the computer,
got up, stretched,
did some microscopic gymnastics,
very tiny,
drank a cup of freshly brewed tea,
pulled ourselves out of the workplace,
walked, brewed this tea,
came to the window,
looked what was heard on the street,
that is, pulled yourself out of the context.
If, on the contrary,
you were traveling all day,
you were running all day,
you were discussing something with someone all day,
then, on the contrary, sit down,
close your eyes,
as our colleagues from Japan did on the slide,
and take a little nap.
This is a really important point.
As you know, in Japan,
new chairs have been developed
that allow you to take a horizontal position
and sleep a little during the working day.
It is thought that, unfortunately,
this has not yet reached Russia,
but nevertheless,
it is possible to sit a little,
with your eyes closed,
and, as psychologists say,
to focus,
that is, not to think about anything,
this is a very useful thing.
So, the first thing we agreed on
is that we rest during the working day.
And now let's talk,
if we do not rest,
what should we do with the tasks
that we have to do
and that we really do not want to solve sometimes.
And the first task is called
an elephant.
So, the first task is called an elephant.
What is it?
The task is huge,
very, very voluminous,
it is not quite clear
how to get to it, how to solve it.
This is a task that should never be solved
in one sitting.
What should we do with this task?
And what is this task?
Writing a dissertation,
developing a powerful business plan,
developing a strategy,
a development strategy,
a PR strategy,
everything that requires immersion.
In addition, of course,
these are our everyday tasks,
this is a renovation, a move,
this is some kind of real estate purchase,
this is even a car purchase.
Everyone knows the elephant,
learning a foreign language.
This is getting a driver's license.
Why?
Because in order to cope
with this elephant,
we need to do a lot of things.
In particular, we need to prepare a theory,
hand it over, we need to hand over the site,
we need to hand over the city.
So, are there any technologies
that can solve these elephant tasks?
Yes, of course, there are.
Please pay attention to the next slide.
We are sorry for the elephant,
but the most correct thing we can do
is to cut it into beefsteaks.
What is a beefsteak?
This is a portion of work
that can be done in one sitting.
that can be budgeted,
placed in the plan of the day
and calmly deal with the solution of this task.
But there is a correct approach
to cutting the elephant into beefsteaks,
and there is not quite the correct approach.
What is it?
Please look at the slide,
and read the page of the traffic rules.
This is not quite the correct approach
to cutting the elephant
under the name of driver's rights.
Why?
It is a much more reasonable approach
to work out one exam card.
Because reading the page of the traffic rules
is often not very informative for us.
We did not get close to the knowledge
of the specific situations
that occur on the road,
nor to the issue of driving license.
However, when we work out an exam card,
perhaps in this case we need to read
not one page of the traffic rules,
but several different pages at once.
And besides that,
we should call our good friend,
consult with him,
consult with someone,
think of something else,
maybe read something additional.
In any case,
this sharply brings us closer to the end result.
Area number two.
To study the new traffic rules.
The new traffic rules
also apply to the elephant.
If we are talking about a piece of the elephant
called the grammar,
then I agree with this.
But if we are talking about a huge elephant,
about studying the language,
about using it,
about forming weekend competitions,
then, of course,
it is more reasonable
to do something more practical.
For example,
to talk to a native speaker for a while,
to read the head of Harry Potter
in the language with your child,
or to watch Pirates of the Caribbean
in the language,
or to watch a news program,
or to read a newspaper in the language.
In any case,
this is what arms you
with weekend competitions
on the application of those knowledge
of a foreign language.
And finally, the third elephant,
which is presented on the slide,
is the article about fitness.
You know, this elephant
is called a change
to the best physical shape of the body.
What very often attracts temptation
to study all the new literature
on this topic,
it is better to do exercise
or do 50 push-ups
or just take a contrast shower.
That is, finally,
move away from words and get down to business
and do something useful.
And now we will cut the elephant.
And for this,
again, let's turn to our workbook.
So, please open the workbook
on page 12
and turn it over
so that you have such a clean page on the left.
Now we are working with a clean page.
Please think about
what your elephant
in your work,
what task you have not started for a long time,
because it is so voluminous
that you really want to postpone it
and do as much as possible.
Second, please decide
with the elephant in your private life.
Maybe you have a long time to do the renovation
in the apartment, and you are pulling it all the time.
Maybe something else,
maybe you have not been tidying up your home for a long time,
despite the fact that your family is asking you
about it very much.
They are asking you to do something,
and they demand from you some endless efforts
and it is not clear where they should start and where they should end.
And please decide with the elephant
in the field of your self-development.
Maybe you have a long time to write a dissertation,
maybe you have a long time to write a monograph,
or something else,
some other book
that will allow you to go to a completely new
stage of your development.
So, you have decided on this,
and now, please,
cut the elephant into pieces.
Before you allocate a small portion of work,
it is worth determining
from which key pieces
this elephant consists.
For example,
we return to our elephant
on the transfer of driver's license.
As we have already said,
this is a theory of the site and the city.
Here are three blocks that can be further
calmly broken into pieces.
So, in any case,
it is necessary to first determine
such large blocks
from which this case consists.
And after that,
this specific block is divided into bifstex,
that is, we allocate a small portion of work,
which can be done
during your working day.
How to allocate time for this?
We have already decided on this.
This is a budgetary task,
or, as an exception,
you can put it as a tough task for yourself,
to finally put yourself
in a hopeless situation,
that you must
cope with this bifstex
and, of course,
start his slow eating.
You will not have time to look around,
as after a while you will find
that there is not a piece of your elephant left.
And we move on to our next dish.
Our next dish is called a frog.
What is it?
A small,
not difficult,
but very unpleasant thing,
which we try to put off
as far as possible.
Ideally, not to do it at all.
What is it?
A call to an unpleasant person,
a charge that we do not want to do,
some unpleasant conversation
that we have to have,
a trip to a dentist.
It is not difficult,
it will take no more than an hour,
and in fact, in modern conditions,
it is not so painful,
but it is painful and unpleasant.
So, what to do with frogs?
It is very simple,
this frog must be eaten
from the earliest morning,
as soon as you come to work.
Eating a frog in the morning
increases your further performance
in three, say the specialists.
Why? First of all,
because you are a winner,
you have defeated yourself.
In addition, the most unpleasant thing
that was waiting for you today is already behind,
and you have already solved
all the problems.
Sometimes life goes so that
two frogs are waiting for us,
one of which is already a toad,
that is, a big unpleasant task,
and the second is smaller.
We do exactly the same,
we start our day
with a small frog,
and after that we are completely free.
Someone says,
how can I eat a frog in the morning,
my mood will be spoiled for the whole day.
You will not spoil your mood
for a very simple reason,
you already treat it
as some unpleasant task
and you will say,
I will deal with it,
I will swallow it now,
and everything will be fine.
That is, you dissociate yourself from the problem,
and this is very important.
Look, you are standing on the top of the mountain,
right in front of you is a descent on skis,
and you have to fall into
what is now just a gap,
imagine your state,
and now imagine yourself
in a completely different state,
level, you are standing on skis,
noticeably stable,
you are standing well, everything is sunny,
and there is a small figure of a skier
somewhere near the mountain
and now he will descend beautifully
from this mountain down,
and you look at it,
you have a different state,
this is the same association and dissociation,
that is, you are associated with the problem
or you are dissociated,
and this technique of eating a frog
allows you to dissociate from the problem
and consider it in the game
as a toy,
and now I will cope with you,
because I am smart,
I am brave, I am just fine fellow.
Next, our frog can have a single character,
and can have a regular character.
For example, we can
need to make an unpleasant call,
this is a single frog,
and if we started learning a foreign language
and even split our elephant
into beefsteaks,
and after that split the beefsteaks
into small frogs,
and these frogs are presented
just on your next slide.
So, three new English words
you have to learn every day.
This is a regular frog,
and for its eating you need a special technique,
this is a two-dimensional graph
that we use,
which is presented on the slide.
Please look at the lines,
and we mark the days
when we have to do this task.
So, frogs, three new English words,
some kind of gymnastics,
or cold spitting,
or some kind of very contrasting shower.
Please look at the lines,
we only mark the days
when we have to eat this frog.
This does not mean that if we do not eat it,
we need to immediately become
an anti-officer widow.
There is no such tragedy.
In time management there should not be violence,
this is a vicious circle.
This is a time-hunting trip,
a time-hunting organization,
or if someone is closer to this association,
a suit that is perfectly suited
for itself,
a suit for organizing your own time,
for organizing your own life.
So, if you did not cope with some kind of frog today,
well, God forbid,
you just did not tick the box.
The next day you will definitely tick it.
This two-dimensional schedule is needed
for you to control yourself
and not to miss,
not to forget about your frog,
which is so asked
that you eat it.
And now please open your workbooks
and look at page 12.
Look, please, at the top you have a table
in which you must present
your unpleasant tasks
and in the right column
indicate the time for these tasks.
As you will see,
time is actually required very little.
And objectively,
it is not too difficult.
And how to cope with your own mood,
we have already talked about it.
And after you fill in the top table,
you need to fill in the middle table
where your everyday frogs and beefsteaks are presented.
So, in the very left column,
please write
those very things
that are your regular frogs or beefsteaks.
And note in these columns
the process,
not the process itself,
but the fact of eating these animals,
namely the solution of these tasks.
We have one more dish,
but before we start eating,
I would like to remind you
that we are working with our workbook.
Please look at the bottom,
our intermediate joys are presented.
Indeed, our life would turn into God knows what
if it reduced to eating
all the unpleasant things
that we have already talked about.
Beefsteaks,
frogs,
and other unpleasant tasks.
In fact,
in order to motivate yourself
to work with unpleasant tasks,
you should choose
the most delicious product
for which we will cope
with unpleasant tasks.
Namely, choose the most delicious product
for which we will cope with unpleasant tasks.
Namely, choose the so-called intermediate joy.
It can be anything.
It can be a trip to the cinema,
it can be a purchase of a new DVD,
it can be a huge delicious cake,
it can be two hours of time spent
with good friends
with whom you have not seen for a long time,
it can be a beautiful expensive lipstick
or something like that.
Everything you consider necessary and important.
As one listener said,
I will eat frogs for 6 days,
and on the 7th day I will eat frog legs.
Isn't it beautiful?
So we move on to our next dish
which is called Swiss cheese.
What is it?
When you can't cope with beefsteaks,
when you can't solve any task
even at the level of your daily working time
for two hours,
we apply the Swiss cheese method.
The point is to bite off a small piece.
You need to clean your apartment.
Go and wet the rag and that's it.
I'll just wet the rag and put it back
and I won't do anything with it.
I need to learn a foreign language.
I'll just open the textbook,
nothing else.
A small portion of work.
The point is to make the road easier for the walker.
The eyes are afraid, the hands are doing.
So do at least a little.
You need to write an article.
Write half a page.
You won't have time to look around yourself
how to write the second, and the third one,
and the case is over.
One of the greats gave an example.
A letter was written.
What is it that my father doesn't write today?
Take a clean sheet of paper and write
what my father doesn't write today.
What my father doesn't write today.
So you look and write.
And then a whole new story was created.
This is about the Switzerland cheese method.
So we move on to the technique
which leads us to a certain completion of the cycle.
The cycle of work on time management.
The technique is called the Pinarik calendar.
It is presented on your slide.
Please pay attention to the structure of the Pinarik calendar.
Why is it a Pinarik? Because it is a Pinarik.
It does not allow us to forget that time is a very material thing.
And as we said, it is our only inexhaustible resource.
Now we will go through the structure,
and then we will fill in the Pinarik calendar,
which is presented in your workbook.
At the top are the years, in the middle is the current year.
Only at the bottom is a line that continues the years.
That's the whole structure. It is very simple.
And now we will start filling in our personal Pinarik calendar.
Please open your workbook on page 13.
At the bottom you have a Pinarik calendar for...
Please write your name or name there.
And then please write that this Pinarik calendar is started.
Write today's date.
The date when you look at this Pinarik calendar for the first time.
And then let's fill it in.
So, in the first two lines we find the year of your birth.
And crosswise crosswise cross this cell.
Crossed.
Now the next cell after it, also crosswise crosswise cross.
This is the year when you turned one.
And the next we crosswise cross. This is when you were two years old.
And so we cross every year of your life until the current year.
So, the top two lines end in the year 2000.
And we move on to the bottom line.
Cross 2001, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
And cross 7 not crosswise, but one line diagonally.
Because the 7th year is just going on.
Next, we move on to the left column, which shows the months of the current year.
Cross January, cross February, cross March, cross April.
And finally, cross May with one line diagonally, because now we have May here.
Crossed.
Now we start looking at the line that goes to the right of May.
These are the dates of the number May.
So, the first May is already passed, we cross it crosswise.
And the second one has passed, we cross it crosswise.
So we have reached today's date.
Today's date we crossed with one line diagonally.
Our calendar is ready to be introduced.
Tonight you will cross today crosswise.
And tomorrow morning in the next cell you will put one line diagonally.
That is, you will cross the next cell diagonally.
Tomorrow evening you will cross tomorrow crosswise.
And so on.
What is the essence of this technique? Why is it needed?
Please look at the next slide.
So, our first task is to materialize time.
After all, it is a great temptation to leave this problem and not think that time is extremely material.
Well, think, another year has passed, well, think again, the New Year, well, think again, summer is coming to an end.
Well, think, think, think, think.
And then, it seems, somehow you don't want to think about anything.
So, our task is to materialize time, our inexhaustible, priceless time.
And finally, of course, you see how it is indicated on the slide, this is a daily brain composting, reminding yourself that one day has passed in your priceless, unique life.
You know, people who constantly run the Penarik calendar claim that in just a week they have a state of fierce discontent.
Any processes, phenomena and people who greedily claim their time, and most importantly, they do it aimlessly and uselessly and without forgiveness.
That's the point, so to speak.
And look, please, we are closing a certain circle.
We started our course with a pie of time.
And we are closing the study of our course with our technique, which is called the Penarik calendar.
Both techniques have one goal, to remind yourself that our time is priceless, our time is inexhaustible, and we must have time to live, not just react to external circumstances.
Summary of the block of self-motivation.
Pay attention to the following.
1. Systemic rest management. Do not forget about rest during the working day. Remember that this way we invest in ourselves, in our ability to work.
2. Regular self-deception using the time manager menu. Eat elephants, frogs with pleasure and appetite, snack on Swiss cheese.
3. Materialization of time and desires. We write down what we want and we achieve it and provide it to ourselves.
And we materialize time using the Penarik calendar. I must say that time managers who are particularly attentive to this problem make a table with a countdown in Excel.
So, our course has come to an end.
I wish you all the tools of time management that we have discussed will be useful to you and make your life more rich and more effective.
I also want to wish you to have time to live, not just work, to have time to look at the sunrise and sunset and in the eyes of people who love you so much and who need you so much.
I wish you happiness, health and good luck.